all right hello everyone welcome back to
the channel I am back with another
breakdown of a common system design
interview question this time Love Is in
the Air uh we're going to be designing
Tinder um so if you like our content you
want more of it make sure you like
subscribe you know all those things that
I have to say uh but really the
increasing number of subscribers is
motivating to us and it's motivating us
to keep pumping out more and more
content for all of you so if you're
enjoying it go ahead and take a moment
to do that
uh quickly for those who are new to the
channel I'm Evan I'm a former meta staff
engineer and interviewer conducted many
hundreds of interviews uh and nowadays
I'm the co-founder of hello interview
and hello interview is a site that helps
software Engineers prepare for their
upcoming interviews both via free
educational resources uh as well as paid
mock interviews with senior interviewers
from your target
company um if videos aren't your thing
I'm going to link in the description a
written guide um that has all of the
same that covers all of the same topics
that I'm going to discuss in this video
so let me show you what that looks like
that's over here you can see on hello
interview.com we have a lot of common
problems at this point Tinder being one
of them this was actually written by one
of our top coaches Joe Joe was a former
staff engineer at meta he's currently uh
an engineer at notion Joe and I actually
went to college together uh he's a super
super bright guy so this is a fantastic
write up he also wrote the Cassandra
write up here as well as YouTube so give
this content a a a read um I'm going to
put his LinkedIn as well as my LinkedIn
in the description so if you want to
connect with either of us you can find
those there last thing um before we get
started we've been working really hard
this last couple months on what we call
guided practice and so if you want to
practice this problem or really any of
those problems that we have here on the
leftand side um you can use guided
practice and this walks you through each
of the steps in our delivery framework
the requirements the Coreen the apis uh
deep Dives highle design and gives you
instant feedback on each of the
questions so this was a deep dive
question I just answered we'll talk
about this in the video I nailed it um
but you can see kind of all of the
questions here going all the way back to
when you did API routes that wasn't a
very good answer core entities the
non-functional requirements Etc so take
a look at this uh you can do Ticket
Master for free right now um the other
ones do cost money they're 60% off
through the end of September it's just a
thank you that any early users so give
that a look but enough of the upsells
let's Jump Right In I know what you're
here for let's show you how to design
Tinder all right so what the heck is
Tinder in the first place well Tinder is
a mobile dating app uh it was
revolutionary when it came out the way
that it works is it shows you a stack of
profiles that match your preferences and
are close to you in location and then
you can swipe left or right really
quickly in order to indicate swiping
right if you like someone and left if
you don't like them or if you're passing
on their profile and then if two users
end up swiping right on each other then
they match and you're allowed to dm with
each other and chat so that's what
Tinder as an app is now as we walk
through this call it a system design
interview of course this isn't uh a
exact replica of a system design
interview because it's me an interviewer
walking you through kind of in more
detail than you would provide in an
actual interview how I would answer some
of these questions and how I've seen
candidates answer them in the many times
I've asked uh candidates to design
Tinder but we're going to follow the
hello interview recommended delivery
framework and if you've watched any of
our other videos then you know this
framework really well by now but I'll go
over it just briefly the first thing
that we're going to do is that we're
going to lay out the requirements of the
system this is both the functional
requirements or the features of the
system as well as the non functional
requirements or the qualities of the
system qualities are those things like
the latency the scalability ETC you'll
see when we get there we're going to
define the core entities of the system
these are basically like the tables that
you're going to have in your data model
the entities uh we won't go into the
fields just yet that'll happen later on
in the high level design but we'll get a
a basic overview of what entities are
exchanged uh and persisted in our system
and then we'll move on to the API design
so we'll document the apis the user
facing apis of our system basically the
contract between our users and our
backend data flow is not relevant to
this problem that's only relevant for
non user-facing system design questions
for which this is user-facing nonuser
facing are are things like you know
designed distributed uh job scheduler or
rate limiter or a message CU you know
some of those deeper backend components
so not relevant here you can check out
the videos on adclick aggregate or
WebCrawler if you want to see examp
examp of data flow uh then we're going
to sketch out a simple highle design of
the system now crucially the goal of our
highle design is to just satisfy our
core functional requirements we're not
worried about the non-functional
requirements yet we're not worried about
scalability or uh ensuring our
availability consistency guarantees or
any of that stuff yet we're just getting
down something simple that's going to
work and satisfy our functional
requirements and then we get to the fun
part which is the Deep Dives this is
where we take that simple highle design
and we layer on all of the nonfunctional
requirements by going one by one through
them and going deep to ensure that we
can satisfy each of them so this is the
the general framework that we're going
to follow let's get
started as promised we're going to go
ahead and start with those functional
requirements and so so you guys don't
have to watch me type I'm actually going
to paste in the functional requirements
here and we'll go through them and so
when the interview first starts this is
a time where you can ask some questions
like you may not be fully familiar with
how Tinder works that's fine spend some
time asking your interviewer not only
how Tinder works but which parts of
Tinder are most interesting to them and
so this is where you might list out some
of the features like you can see on the
screen here and then prioritize them say
like these are the ones that I think
matter in this 35 to 45 minute interview
and here are some of the ones that I
think fall below the line so in this
case and when I ask this question this
is is the set of functional requirements
that I usually land on with the
candidates and that's that first users
can set their preferences and so this is
like the type of people they want to
match with so the age range the gender
that they're interested in things of
this nature any preferences uh maybe and
then importantly this doesn't include
like creating a profile I usually put
that as out of scope and so we can do
that here actually so out of scope o
like creating a full profile we will
create a profile only because it's
important to set the preferences but in
terms of like linking all of your images
as a user and you know your description
and your funny witty prompts and all of
that we're going to consider that out of
scope now once a user has set their
preferences then we're going to need to
be able to or they're going to need to
be able to view that stack of potential
matches and so the user can view a stack
of potential matches and this is going
to be based on those preferences that
they set so we should only show them
people that are in their age range and
gender preference Etc and importantly
they need to be close to their current
location so this needs to be users who
are only you know n miles and one of
their preferences set can be the
distance that they're okay with um and
so it'll be n miles from their current
location is the only matches that we'll
show them and then from there users can
swipe left or right no or yes
respectively on each profile and if two
users swipe right then they should get a
match notification that they've matched
so those are the core functional
requirements that we're going to go with
now I'll often times when asking this
question introduce a constraint which
makes this problem more interesting as
well and that constraint is that we want
to avoid showing repeat profiles so if
somebody's already seen a profile then
we don't want to show it to them again
this makes sense and this is how Tinder
Works you've already decided if you like
or don't like someone there's no reason
for us to show them to you again so
that's our functional requirements of
course
uh functional requirements these are the
core features of the system they're
usually phrased in this like users can
users should be able to users whatever
that's that's the framing of these
functional requirements and that's how
you should be thinking about them in
your head now when it comes to the
nonfunctional requirements let's write
that out here non-functional
requirements this is where you worry
about the qualities of the system and so
this is where you're going to consider
things like cap theorem this is where
you're going to consider the scalability
the latency the fault tolerance the
durability all of those ility statements
that you've heard and know so well
there's actually a list of these things
that should be considered on the Hello
interview website if you go to the
delivery framework and then go down to
non-functional requirements uh I've kind
of documented the list of things that
you might want to consider here um and
so the key is that like all systems are
usually all these things all systems try
to be fault tolerant and scalable and
low latency and of course they do but
with non functional requirements you're
specifically trying to identify the
qualities that are uniquely challenging
and interesting for this particular
system that's the goal and so step one
identify which of these qualities are
relevant to this system step two put
them in the context of this system and
then step three if possible quantify
them so let's do that together here the
first thing I would consider is Cap
theorem so should this system prioritize
consistency or availability and you
don't know about cap theorem go give it
a read it basically states that in
distributed systems you have to choose
two of three consistency availability
and partition tolerance partition
tolerance is a guarantee in a
distributed system so we decide between
prioritizing consistency or availability
in making this Choice the question is
really does every single read of the
system need to read the latest right or
else it will fail if so we need strong
consistency if not then we'll probably
prioritize High availability and so in
the case of this system we actually want
to prioritize consistency specifically
in the context of the system swipes so
we want consistency for swipes and the
reason for this is because the way
Tinder works is that when the second
person swipes right on a profile for
whom that other person already liked
them then they instantly get a uh you
know match notification that shows up on
their screen notification might not be
the right word but the second they swipe
then bang it goes you match and it gives
them a little celebration thing um and
so in order for us to ensure that we get
that match right when we swipe right
well we need to have the most accurate
view uh of the latest rights when we
read to know that somebody else had
already swiped on us even if it happened
only moments before and so I'll talk
later on in the Deep dive some caveats
here uh there is a way to satisfy this
problem without consistency for swipes
but um I'll go into more detail on that
later for now we're going to prioritize
consistency over availability
specifically as it pertains to swipes
for all other parts of our system we'll
prioritize High
availability um other things that we
want to consider here is when a user
opens up their app they want to get
their stack of potential matches shown
to them immediately so they don't want
to have to be waiting and this is a long
operation potentially um as it pertains
to to Tinder because we're having to
filter all of the profiles based on
location which can be expensive and then
based on on your set of preferences and
without careful consideration here
during our design this could take a
while and so I'm going to explicitly
call it out as a non-functional
requirement I want low latency feed SL
maybe we'll we'll stick to that same
terminology stack loading and I'm going
to quantify it I want it to be under 300
milliseconds and so for quantification
here what you should think about is 200
milliseconds is perceived by humans as
real time this is like a blink 200
milliseconds and so when we have results
and things we usually want to be between
that 200 and 500 millisecond range and
so I'm just putting 300 here 500 maybe
would be okay to half a second um but
I'm going to go with
300 and then the next thing to call out
here is that there's going to be a lot
of of Rights particularly from swipes
like swipes are so easy and because
they're so easy users can just swipe
left right left right left right A ton
and so maybe in the interviewer in the
interview I would ask my interviewer
what's the scale of this system or I
would make a prediction and I'll tell
you it's about 10 million daily active
users and so we can write you know maybe
somewhere around here let me move things
around to the scale is 10 million daily
active users and so um if we have 10
million daily active users and each of
them swipe on say 100 profiles or
whatever each day then this is a lot of
Rights and so what I'm going to add to
my non-functional requirements is scale
to handle the high right through
throughput of 10 million time 100 swipes
a day and of course they'll be Peaks
associated with that too so those are my
non-functional requirements and now of
course we're going to use these when we
get later in our deep Dives um to inform
what we need to satisfy in our system
where we should go deep and what we need
to satisfy so let me stop here and let's
move on to the core entities in the
API with the requirements in place we're
going to move on to the core entities
and then the API and so core entities
this is where we simply
document uh kind of the core entities
that are persisted and exchanged in our
system we don't need to do the full data
model the full schema here but I would
communicate that with my interviewer so
I would say explicitly like I'm going to
document the core entities these are
going to be the tables that I'm going to
have in my database uh I'm not going to
go into the full schema or data model
yet because it's a little early in the
design I don't know all of the columns
just yet so instead I'm going to do that
when I get to the highle design and so
for here I'm just going to call out what
are these main entities well we're going
to have a profile this profile is going
to be responsible for storing the
preferences of the users uh we're also
going to have a swipe when user swipes
left or right we'll persist that and
then we're also going to have a match if
two people match then we'll create a new
match entity to to identify that this
was a match so these are the core
entities of my system easy
enough we're going to go from there onto
the API and so these are just the
user-facing apis needed to satisfy our
functional requirements and so the way
to build up your apis is to look at your
functional requirements and go one by
one through them often times there's a
one toone mapping between a functional
requirement and an API this isn't always
the case we'll actually see an example
of that here and sometimes there's maybe
two apis required to satis by a single
functional requirement but this is the
the general uh process that you should
follow to come up with these apis so
let's do that here the first one users
can set their preferences so this is
essentially creating a profile with
their preferences of course we talked
about how out of scope is creating a
profile with their images and all of
those things but we do need to create a
profile that at least just has those
preferences because that'll be important
to creating the recommendation stack and
so we're going to use rest here we're
going to make sure that we have proper
rest vers so I'm going to post my
resource is going to be
profiles and the body of this request is
going to be those preferences so maybe
the Min age maybe the max the max age
the gender that I'm interested in
matching with the radius how far away
they can be from me and maybe there's
some other things here uh in terms of
preferences as well and this could
either just return a success 200 or
error otherwise or maybe it Returns the
actual profile back to the user either
way now the next one that we need to do
is that users can view that stack of
potential matches this is going to be
based on those preferences that we just
said as well as their current
location and so this is going to be a
git request and this is going to be on
the resource stack or you know some
people are very particular about the
plural of their resources so we can call
it Stacks I don't have a strong
preference there um now the server is
going to take into consideration those
preferences that we stored in our
database in the profile entity um but it
also needs to know the user's current
location and this isn't something that
we're going to store cuz it's something
that's going to change so we're going to
require the user to pass this into us
via the API specifically via a query
pram here so they're going to let us
know where they are the latitude and
longitude uh and then this is going to
return a list of profiles and so this is
one of the nicest things about following
this framework of doing core entities
and then API because our API can just
reference these core entities we don't
need to document all the fields and
columns and and you know I did do the
post body here didn't necessarily even
need to but this is going to streamline
our API writing I don't need to again
write everything that's in a profile
it's just a profile I'm referencing that
core entity that I defined now we also
need to know what user we're getting a
stack for of course and so some people
might think to put the user ID up here
as either a path parameter or a query
pram maybe even put it in the body as
uncommon that is in get requests um but
these would all be security concerns you
know this if you've watched some of the
other videos we don't want to put put
the user ID into the request itself at
least not into the the body or the query
or path progams because it can be easily
manipulated uh so I could just make a
request with somebody else's ID and I
could get their stack and see their
preferences um that wouldn't be very
good or their matches based on their
preferences that wouldn't be good so
instead uh we're going to use proper API
security here and we're going to use
either JWT or a session token in the
header and this is what we're going to
use then server side to validate who the
user is making this request okay now the
next one that we have here is that users
can swipe left no or right yes and so
this is again going to be a post request
because it's going to create a new row
in our database in our swipes table
create a new swipes entity and so we'll
have swipes here we'll need to know who
we're swiping on uh notably this isn't
you this is the other user that you're
swiping on um so as a path parameter
here we're going to have that user ID
because it's required that's why we use
it here um and then the post body will
be something like maybe the decision of
either yes or no this could also be left
or right or anything like that so we
have these three core apis and then then
this again could just return uh you know
I guess it's going to return did they
match yes or no so it might return a
match object um but that'll be optional
it could also return just undefined in
the
200 so looking at our last functional
requirement here two users swipe right
they get a match uh and there's a
notification and so in this cases we'll
talk about more later on and we already
alluded to it the second person to swipe
is going to get that instant match that
shows up on their screen right for the
swipe the other one's going to need to
get a push notification and so that push
notification part well that's not an an
a user facing API our server is going to
in uh initiate that so we're not going
to write an API for it uh instead these
are our Three core user facing API
and now as we move on to the highle
design we're going to use these to go
one by one and ensure that our design is
able to satisfy each of these requests
both the inputs and outputs of these
requests okay so we' got the
requirements in place we've outlined our
core entities we've also documented our
API at this point we're sort of like
done with the setup we have a really
clear understanding now of the problem
what what it takes to solve it what our
contract is is with our back end and now
it's time to start sketching that out so
we're going to head to the Whiteboard
and we're going to draw out our highle
design and our our highle design again
the goal is to meet these functional
requirements and we're going to just
start simple and so what we're going to
do is we're going to go one by one
through these requirements or put
another way one by one through our apis
and we're just going to make sure that
our system can handle each of these so
let's start with that users can set
their preferences so we have this post
API on profile this is going to need to
store some profile information for the
user so how can we do that well I'm
going to introduce here first a client
this is just going to be the user's
mobile device since this is only mobile
applications this is going to interact
with I'm going to put an API Gateway in
here potentially early uh you could hold
off and do this later but I'm going to
opt for microservice architecture it's
by far the most common architecture in
the system design interview so if you're
not sure it's probably the right thing
to go with but when you introduce a
microservice architecture then you want
an API Gateway here and the main thing
that it's going to handle is routing so
it's going to Route each of the API
requests to the appropriate service it
can also do some additional middleware
like authentication or uh
authorization things like rate limiting
potentially whatever slightly less
important I wouldn't spend a lot of time
there in the interview the main thing is
that the API Gateway is going to route
to the appropriate
microservice and so the first
microservice that we're going to
introduce is what we'll call this
profile service and so we'll call it the
profile
service and the profile service is going
to be responsible for taking that set
profile API request so it's going to
take that set profile request and it's
going to construct a SQL query in order
to add a row to our database uh in the
profile table and so I'm going to have a
profile database here database excuse my
typing and we are going to create a new
row in that
and now when we documented the core
entities we told our interviewer hey
we're going to hold off on the data
modeler schema for now because we don't
necessarily know it yet we'll do it
during the highle design this is my
recommendation I want to be clear this
isn't the only way to conduct a system
design interview you could do it earlier
if you want to and if you know the
columns feel free uh I like doing it
this way because now when I'm actually
um really focused on the flow of data
through my system I I have a really good
understanding of what needs to be
persisted here and so when that API
request comes in I have this profile um
table and it's going to have the name of
the user probably of course we need that
but then it's going to have all their
preferences so this is like their Min
age preference their max age preference
uh their gender preference gender
preference um maybe like the the max
distance from them that they want to see
people and of course it'll have other
things but those other things are out of
scope for this interview so I'm just
going to dot dot dot them so now just
next to my database I know exactly
what's in this and as we continue to
build the highle design if there's more
columns that kind of come to mind it's
easy for me to just add them here um
since via proximity they're they're
close to my database so a user uh has
that post API request with some profile
information it hits our API Gateway it's
routed to the profile service and the
profile service uh formulates a SQL
query in this case maybe I'm making the
assumption that this is a SQL database
that may not be the case there's there's
no right or wrong answer here
um there's not going to be a ton of data
um there's not a ton of relationships so
it really doesn't matter choose your
database of choice um I'll paste this in
here you would never do this in an
interview but I know that we have some
maybe more Junior folks who watch these
and this might be interesting to them
that's the SQL query that's an example
of it so you'd insert into the profile
table with these values so pretty
straightforward but that's what would be
run from the profile service sweet okay
let's move over to our second one then
users can view a stack of potential
matches so this should take into
consideration the preferences and it
should be close to the current users and
so that's this API this G Stacks lat
long
API so when that g stack API request
comes in we're going to have it also hit
our profile service certainly at least
for now as we're staying simple and it's
just going to have a simple I'm going to
delete that it's just going to have a
simple SQL query in order to get the
preferences of the user and then a
second SQL query in order to get all the
profiles that meet those preferences
right and so that query might look
something like this you're going to have
a first query that just says fetch me
all of the profile information for this
user in my case user Evan and then using
that user information we're going to do
a second SQL query that says well Evan
wants between 25 and 35 females a little
weird to say um but nonetheless you guys
get the point in the context of the
system design inter of you and then
we're going to do this to handle
distances so we know my latitude and
longitude because it was passed in um by
the API request and so we can filter um
using my max distance and the distance
of wherever that that user currently is
um and so in writing this out I'll call
out maybe I slightly misspoke earlier I
said that we weren't going to need to
persist users locations certainly we
will have to do that I'm going to
abstract it away just because it's not
the most important part of the problem
but maybe every time user sends their
git stack with their current location
we'll save latest location and this is
what we're going to use in order to
compare their current location at time
of requesting the stack to the latest
location of all the other profiles that
they could potentially match with That's
How we'll handle that so that's what's
going to happen it's going to return the
stack back to the user now really
importantly um this is inefficient we
know this is inefficient we know that
this part in particular of the query is
super inefficient even if you built
indexes on ladin Long here uh you're
using indexes that are built for
onedimensional data in order to query
two-dimensional data and it's requiring
a pretty significant scan of the
database and so this isn't good and it's
something that we're going to optimize
in our deep Dives but it's good enough
for now now a question that I often get
while I'm conducting interviews is or
conducting mock interviews at least um
is do I need to start start simple like
what if I know the answer what if at
this point I know that I need some
geospatial index or something should I
just mention it and the answer is of
course you can if you know the answer
then go ahead and talk about it um the
reason that we start simple in the high
level design is two things one it may be
a problem for which you don't know the
answers and so by building up the basics
it's helping uh build things
sequentially and linearly in your mind
such that you're going to be able to do
those deep Dives more efficiently later
on like you might not know the answer
yet to put that in another way um the
other thing is that we don't want you to
go too deep in a certain place early in
the interview and then spend all your
time there and all of a sudden you
haven't satisfied the core requirements
of the system and so that's a common
mistake I see candidates make they get
to this point in the interview and now
they just start talking all about
geospatial indexes they burn 20 minutes
or something and they never satisfied
all the other requirements and then it's
hard for me to pass them in the
interview because they've designed a
system that didn't meet the requirement
that we agreed upon early on and so if
you know the answer maybe you mention it
maybe you just call it out maybe you
write it down if it's quick just don't
let yourself get too bogged down here um
because the negative case is like I said
that you don't get to to meet the
functional requirements of the system so
little bit of a rant there but hopefully
that makes sense for our purposes we'll
start simple like this and at this point
we've satisfied two of the main uh
functional requirements and we have two
more now let's move on on to our third
functional requirement users can swipe
left no or right yes and we have that
post swipe
API and so what we're going to do here
is that I'm actually going to add an
additional micros service for this so
I'm going to move this down and I'm
going to add a swipe service and so the
justification here as to why I would
create an additional micros service is
because the traffic patterns of these
two services are very distinct they're
very different from one another in that
the profile service is not going to have
nearly as many rights only when users
are creating or setting their
preferences and in terms of reads it's
only when we get the stack which is not
going to be all that often the swipe
service on the other hand for every one
of these is going to have maybe a
hundred swipes because it's user swiping
on a stack and so we want to be able to
scale these two Services independently
basically I can have more of these as I
need to scale up since a lot is
happening here while keeping fewer of
these so that's the justification here
for separating them and so now when a
swipe comes in we'll say that this is a
swipe with either a yes or a no and I'm
also going to add a separate swipe
database and so I'll create my swipe
database here I'll call it just the
swipe DB
um and this is interesting and something
that I get a lot from candidates as well
which is do I need separate
databases um do I need a database per
microservice can I have microservices
communicate with different databases and
there's a lot of misunderstanding I
would even say out there in the industry
there are microservice zealots who will
tell you that every single microservice
needs its own database and it can't
communicate with other databases it has
to communicate through servers and the
reality is that's not true that
information is a combination of both
outdated and just like overly pedantic
that's not how systems work in the real
world it's totally fine for multiple
microservices to write to the same
database in case in many cases it's
optimal of course there's trade-offs
here um by separating out the databases
you have better fault tolerance one can
go down and the app doesn't necessarily
go down if another stays up this all
depends on the circumstances of your
actual
application um but in this case my
justification for separating out the two
databases is because the requirements of
the data base are different we talked
about how it didn't really matter here
there's not a ton of Rights there's not
necessarily a ton of reads there's not
much relational things going on here you
can you can choose whatever database you
want but for this one we have a lot of
Rights uh and I can actually prove that
right we can prove that because we have
10 million profiles and about 100 swipes
per day on average I think we said and
so that ends up being 1 billion swipes
swipes per day on average there's
100,000
swipes in a or 100,000 seconds in a day
that's rounding up um and so that gets
us to
100,000 per second 100,000 swipes per
second oh bad math 10,000 swipes per
second um but then we can take that
10,000 swipes per second we can call
that the average and we can maybe
multiply it by 10 maybe most people
swipe while they're laying in bed late
at night or at a certain part of the day
and so I'm sure there's some some Peaks
here maybe even some seasonality until
we get to 100,000 swipes per second I
think this is straightforward enough
math I'm doing it on the spot you guys
will let me know in the comments if I
messed it up but the point here is that
that's a lot of Rights and a good thing
to understand is some of kind of the
limits of modern databases as their as
it pertains to their read and write
through put and so like a postgress
database hosted in AWS if you get a
large instance uh and you're writing not
a ton of data how much data are we
writing here right we're probably
writing like 1 kilobyte of data uh we
just have two IDs maybe let's document
that so we have a swipe we have the user
one we have the user two we have kind of
whether or not it was a like so yes or
no uh and then maybe like some cre
created ad or something so this is 32 by
or 16 bytes 16 bytes a couple bytes uh
you know another what is this 12 16
bytes or so so it's less than than 100
bytes um so even less than that 100
bytes of data and we're writing that
100,000 times Peaks per second okay and
so as I was saying uh postgress in AWS
you're looking at like so postgress AWS
Max instance you're looking anywhere
between like 5,000 and 20,000 rights per
second why the range here because it
totally depends on what data you're
writing how large is the data how big is
the instance in AWS like there's a lot
of there's a lot of factors here so this
is just roughly rubbing it and so like
we can kind of think about this as 10K
rights per second when we're dealing
with a relational database like
postgress notably this is per node right
we can always scale to more nodes um but
this would mean that we need anywhere
from like 5 to 20 nodes totally possible
for what it's worth it's not crazy um
and we'll talk about in the Deep dibs
maybe more about these tradeoffs but
this is totally realistic but there also
exists Cassandra and Cassandra is
optimized for rights uh and so with
fewer nodes we can handle the same right
through put and so maybe it makes sense
then for that reason to separate this
into a separate database and to have it
as a different database technology you
mean Cassandra and so again trade-offs
here the team needs to learn two
technologies now if we just both made
these postgress that would be easier on
the team but it would cost us a bit more
money potentially cuz we have more
postrest nodes these are the Fun Trade
us to discuss in an interview um I'm
going to go with this option for now we
might change it later on but uh
Cassandra it's right optimized so it can
handle this peak of 100,000 rights per
second better than a postgress database
for example could uh I'll link actually
in the description there's a Netflix
Tech blog that's pretty great it talks
about how Cassandra scales linearly with
more nodes um and how they were able to
get it to 1 million rights per second
for Netflix so pretty interesting read
I'm worried a bit about taking too long
in this interview but it may be worth me
just briefly explaining why Cassandra is
better at rights than something like
postgress so I think on the spot here
I'm actually going to do that um this is
going to be maybe a little handwavy
obviously this would require a video
itself so I'm not going to go into too
much detail on our website we have a
deep dive on Cassandra so feel free to
read that but the real Essence here is
that Cassandra is doing two things that
postgress isn't the first is that it's
batching its rights so it's keeping all
of its rights in memory and then only
when that memory kind of gets full or a
certain amount of time passes does it
actually flush and then write into do an
iot to disk so this makes it fast um and
then additionally that that flush to
disk is just appending to the end of a
file and so let me sort of briefly go
over how that works and compare the two
so Cassandra what happens when a write
happens well the first thing that we're
going to do is we're going to write to a
log so we're going to write to a log
file this is so that we can persist that
that write in case anything goes down
and then two we're going to write to a
mem table and so this is just writing to
memory this is just writing to memory so
not to disk this one is to disk so you
have one dis right and then you have one
memory right and then you can return to
the user acknowledge so three act the
right all done at this point and then
the fourth thing that happens is
periodically we flush that memory that
mem table uh we flush memory to disk and
when we do flush it to disk uh we flush
it to disk in a way that's just
appending to the end of a file so right
is just in aend um there's a bit more
information there I'm being a little
hand wavy but like this is the Crux of
what's happening now let's compare that
to postgress and so with postgress we
also write to a log and call it a write
ahead log and postgress case so again
that's dis but in this case now we
actually do the DB WR to disk too so
this first log one again is just in case
something goes down we want to get that
write down as soon as possible in case
the database goes down we can recover um
but then we're almost immediately going
to do the DB right now there's some
caching and there are some optimizations
in postgress that makes this not always
true I can hear you guys yelling at me
in the comments but this is mostly true
we do the DB right and then importantly
the ZB R and postgress isn't just a
pending to the end of a file it's
actually seeking to find the right page
where this data exists finding the data
that exists in that page and then
actually updating it so seeking to write
spot and changing or adding row I guess
is how I'll call that um and so if you
were doing like an update to a row in
postgress you need to go find that row
and then update it if you're doing it in
Cassandra you're just going to add a new
line at the end of the file that says I
want to update this row and then
compaction is run periodically which
basically takes all of these different
rows and compacts them into just a
single one in order to save space so I
might have gone too deep here but
hopefully that helps at least a little
bit understand why Cassandra is is more
right optimized it's because it both
batches the rights and the rights are
quicker there is to the end of a file
and so I'm going to go with uh Cassandra
here for my swipe database a last
functional requirement to handle is the
matching so when two users swipe right
or yes on each other they match and they
get a notification so the client's going
to swipe get the swipe surface um we're
going to add that swipe to the database
and then we can also check is there an
inverse swipe and then if there is we're
going to want to create a match first
and so we could create that match in
this database we create it in this
database or we could create a new
database and I don't want us to spend
too much time thinking about this
there's a lot of trade-offs here but
it's not the Crux of this problem so I'm
going to do something that might seem
slightly surprising um but I'm going to
do the following and I'm going to create
the match in this database down here and
so it's going to be user one oh user one
user two uh you know probably a created
at time or something whatever and and
the reason that I'm going to do that is
just because I'm foreseeing even though
this is out of scope and not important
to this problem that we're going to want
to load users profiles and all of their
matches and so there's maybe a slight
relation there and I can put them in the
same table um it's not a big deal could
potentially put them here too we maybe
want to reconsider Cassandra though it's
also fine um anyway don't think too much
about this it's not the important part
of design Tinder but we're going to
store that match and then more
importantly when we store that match
we're then going to call uh the native
notification services and so the native
notification services are APN stands for
apple push notifications or FC CM which
is Firebase Cloud messaging which is
used by Android um and so they both
provide sdks or apis that allow us to
send push notifications to users Oh
wrong one that allow us to send push
notifications to users so the second
person that swipes is going to
immediately get a congrats right on the
client back from our response but the
first person that swiped swiped who
knows how long ago and so we're going to
send them a p push
notification all right now it's time for
the Deep Dives this is the fun stuff so
we have our basic design down and now
we're going to go one by one through our
functional requirements and for each of
them we're going to go deep to explain
how our system satisfies those
non-functional requirements now a quick
note about deep Dives particularly as it
pertains to your level um the amount of
depth that you go into and the amount of
which you proactively lead these
conversations is entirely determined by
the that you're interviewing for so if
you're a mid-level candidate then
there's not a lot of expectations to do
a ton in terms of deep Dives in fact
it's more likely that you're not going
to really lead the conversation here
your interviewer might take over they'll
ask you some questions like for example
how are you going to guarantee
consistency in swipes and they'll
explain to you a scenario for which
things might get inconsistent and then
ask for you to problem solve and try to
figure out a good solution there's no
expectation that you know these things
or have done these things before when
you're a mid-level candidate instead
we're really evaluating as the
interviewer your problem solving skills
given a question giving a prompt given
us highlighting what could go wrong how
are you going to problem solve and
determine a solution now with a senior
candidate our expectation is that you do
a bit more leading here so you're
leading the conversation to at least one
or two deep Dives of appropriate depth
um maybe we jump in as the interviewer
and point you in the direction of a
couple of things that's no problem
that's totally natural um but you should
be largely leading IT staff candidates
this is is where you're able to fully
proactively identify where the issues
are lead the conversation and go really
deep in a handful of places maybe at
least two or three places like we're
going to do um in this video here today
now last thing I'll say there caveat for
the staff candidates the biggest mistake
I see is that I think candidates hear me
give that advice or they read it
elsewhere or see it in our blog posts
and I do a mock interview with them and
they just ramod through the interview
they're just talking fast like they're
really trying to not let me the
interviewer speak because they have the
misconception that if I speak as the
interviewer then that's a knock against
them leading the interview and that is
not true so while you're a staff
candidate you want to lead the
conversation sure but it's still a
conversation and a conversation by
definition includes two people so leave
space for your interviewer to guide you
do things like here are the three
priorities that I'm going to go deep on
do you agree would you re prioritize I'm
going to start with consistency I think
it's interesting for this reason stuff
like that it's really important that you
give your interviewer room to push you
in certain directions because they
likely came into the interview with a
couple key things that they really want
to see and so by not giving them the
opportunity to lead you there you're
shooting yourself in the foot okay so
enough about that rant aside um let's
get into our deep Dives and so our first
one here if we look at our
non-functional requirements is we need
consistency for swipes this is a really
interesting one so let me explain what
the problem is here the problem is that
we want to ensure that the the second
person who swipes immediately gets that
Jing match on their screen that they get
the dopamine hit and feel really excited
the second person will get that
asynchronous notification right we've
mentioned that and so this means that if
two users write or swipe at about the
same time uh then if we're not
consistent we might not know that the
other one swiped so let me give you a
scenario we have Cassandra here astute
viewers of this video might have thought
to themselves wait he's choosing
Cassandra sure has white right through
put but by default it's eventually
consistent so he's going to screw
himself later on when he needs to talk
about strong consistency and swipes to
the people who are watching that Kudos
very very key observation so let's talk
about what the problem is there you can
have two users swipe it about the same
time and let's say that they both swipe
they come to the swipe service and they
both write to the swipe DB to write
their swipe then they check for the
inverse swipe so maybe they just switch
their user ID and the other user's ID
and look to see if that entry is in the
table uh given that this is eventually
consistent it very well might not be yet
basically the node that they're reading
hasn't had that right propagated to it
yet and so they're going to incorrectly
think that there's no inverse swipe and
this is going to happen for both person
a and person B and what it will result
in is both of them not getting a match
notification and both both synchronous
match notification and neither of them
are going to get an asyn match
notification basically we just like lost
the swipe or the match forever
uh because of the eventual consistent
nature we lost this match we have two
people who swiped on each other and the
world may never know right they're not
going to be able to find that love that
they've been seeking so that's our
problem and that's our problem that we
need to fix now there's three main
options or three main Solutions here and
let's go through them one by one the
first and this might sound like a copout
but the first is let's just not be
consistent I kind of alluded to this in
the nonfunction requirements that
there's a world in which we're not
consistent we instead prioritize
availability and the argument here and
this is actually an argument I hear many
staff candidates make is that if your
person B so the person who or person a
excuse me the person who swiped first
you're going to get an asynchronous
notification and you don't know when
that other person actually swiped you
you assume when you get that
asynchronous notification that they had
just matched you um but we can kind of
be loose there so in that situation I
just described we could have some like
reconciliation workflow which just
checks the table every hour or so for
any matches that we missed and in that
case send both users an asynchronous
notification and they're not any the
wiser they don't know that this match
actually happened an hour ago and they
think that the other person just swiped
right on them and they had swiped right
on them an hour earlier right so they're
n little wiser and this would simplify
things a ton uh it would mean that we
can stick with Cassandra we can stick
with eventual consistency we can reduce
our costs we just have some
reconciliation workflow so you can
imagine some Kon job here that just like
runs hourly and looks from missing
matches um so that's option one and it's
a valid option it's a really interesting
thing to discuss with your interviewer
for what it's worth now often times when
this question is brought up in an
interview it's in the context of you
figuring out how to handle this
consistency challenge so many
interviewers might be like that's very
astute that's very interesting but I'm
going to force you to handle the
consistency problem right so you can't
do that cop out so tactically suggestion
to you if you ever got this question in
an interview I would raise that it's a
valid option it's an interesting option
be prepared for your interview to push
back on you and tell you that you need
to handle something else so let's see
what other options we have option two we
can stick with Cassandra here um but we
need to get around this eventual
consistency issue and so Cassandra does
have some configurations that enforce
slightly stronger consistency guarantees
ultimately without going into too much
detail there you're probably still
leaving gaps and it might not be the
most effective solution and it's kind of
you know neutering Cassandra a bit maybe
that's not the right word choice but uh
you're not taking advantage of the right
throughput that you wanted to take
advantage of in the first place so
another option that I'll see candidates
do often and is a totally valid great
option is that they introduce some cash
and we can say that that cash here is
reddis and now every time a swipe
happens we're going to write to this
cash and our key is going to be user one
colon user 2 and the value can be
anything it doesn't matter because this
is essentially functioning as a hashmap
so let me make this clear key value can
be anything maybe just true right and so
the ordering here matters this says user
one swiped on user two they swipe to the
right on user two they want to match
with user two right and so now what
happens is that anytime a swipe occurs
we'll write that to reddis and then
we'll also check if the inverse exists
so does user 2 swiping on user one exist
if it does we know that we have a match
and we can trigger our match workflow
and we can respond synchronously with
the match uh and then after we write to
redus we'll then go still update our
swipe in either case in
Cassandra and so why does this work
importantly this works because reddis is
single threaded and redis has support
for Atomic operations so this right in
this read can be done atomic
basically they're both happening via the
same single thread and this forces
serialization because what we wouldn't
want to have happen is that like one
person person a reads person a reads let
me not write that out but person a reads
uh person B reads person a writes person
B writes and then by kind of
intertwining these read and write
operations the read came up empty and
there was no match right so we need to
group The read and WR so that they
happen atomically and this way the the
the ordering doesn't matter whichever
comes first or second is is largely
irrelevant but we can't miss anything
because they're happening together if
you guys could see my hands right now
I'm demonstrating this well with my
hands a bit harder to draw on the
escalador Whiteboard but hopefully that
makes some sense here so redus
single-threaded things can't happen
concurrently at least not via multiple
threads and then we can have an atomic
operation to user one liked user two and
read did user two like user one and if
it did report back now there's one issue
that this introduced and that's that you
could write to the cash and then failed
to write to the database and now you
have like an incons inconsistent state
by introducing rdus we have a
distributed transaction now we want this
right and this right to always happen
for things to remain consistent they
both have to occur and so we made things
a little challenging for us eles um
because we need to enforce a transaction
in a distributed system and this is fine
there are solutions for this The Saga
pattern let me write that down Saga
pattern is a common one to enforce
consistency in distributed system in
distributed system so maybe I should say
consistent
transactions so I'm not going to go into
detail on that here that itself would be
a whole video but take a look at that
that would need to be the solution here
tactically in your interview I would
want to point out that I understand the
single-threaded nature and the need for
an atomic right in reddis and then that
I understand that I've just introduced
some issues here as it pertains to uh a
distributed transaction and that I know
solutions for that maybe even just
dropping the word Saga pattern would be
significant enough there so that's
option two if you want to keep Cassandra
the benefit here is that you still have
your cheap high right through put this
is wicked fast and it's in memory It's
relatively expensive it could certainly
grow in size uh and we could do the math
to see how large it's going to grow but
that would just result in US
partitioning here probably by user one's
ID um and notably if you ended up
partitioning and these two things showed
up on a different node then it would
become a little more difficult to do
that Atomic operation so you'd want some
partition that ensures that the
reciprocals show up on the same node um
so maybe you sort them first partitioned
by the sorted value anyway nonetheless
so this is the this is the the solution
two totally valid let's talk about what
a what a solution three would be a
solution three would be that you drop
Cassandra all together we talked about
in our high level design how postgress
could actually work here it would just
be more expensive that was our downside
right so we talked about 5 to 10,000 we
probably have it here 5 to 10,000 rights
per second 5 to 20,000 rights per second
it would take like 10 nodes 5 to 20
nodes or so um to satisfy our right
through put that's totally fine but the
nice thing is that post postgress
actually
supports um you know acid properties in
transactions natively so if we did
switch this to
postgress uh should I do overwrite this
yeah I'm going to overwrite this uh and
then I might just control Z out so if we
did switch this to postgress then we
could do something really interesting we
could change a single swipe row to
instead of having two rows for each for
each reciprocal swipe right we have this
row Row in our cassander database if
user one swipes on two and we'd have the
inverse of this if user two swipes on
one we could have a row that looked like
this it could be a swipe it could be
gosh it could be user one user two and
then like user one decision and user two
decision right and so now the reciprocal
swipe and the you know first swipe the
first swipe and its inverse are kept in
the same row and so why is this
important well this means that when a
swipe comes in we're going to either
create this R if it doesn't exist or
just update it and both the swipe and
the inverse swipe are writing to the
same row and so postgress will lock the
row on concurrent rights this is
something that's going to happen um
automatically for you and so this is
going to cons uh simplify the
consistency management a ton and ensure
that post's acid properties handle the
concurrency in the the updates
accordingly we're going to come in here
we're going to lock this row we're going
to write our value the next guy if they
came in at the same time is just going
to be waiting he's going to come in
after on the same row see that somebody
else already liked him and Trigger the
match flow right so by updating the same
row we avoid the complexities of merging
records and we can easily trigger that
match flow just using post's acid
properties natively pretty nice um now
we're not going to be able to handle as
high of a right through put we'll need
more nodes it'll be more expensive we'll
not need redus anymore more so that's
great um tradeoffs here in my opinion
either the Cassandra option which I'm
going to go back to here um just to make
sure that we're kind of all alined
either the Cassandra option or that
postrest option that I just documented
are both great Solutions five out of
five if you read our answer keys um so
either one works I love this
conversation and the tradeoff and really
what I'm looking for in the interview is
that candidates can show this depth
particularly at the staff level at the
senior level I would just want you to
land on one of those two options and be
able to explain it fairly clearly at the
midlevel option I wouldn't expect any of
this depth uh you just introducing a
cash and telling me that you're going to
do the lookup in the cash not
understanding the complic uh uh you know
the complication that you introduce with
the distributed transaction totally fine
I don't expect that you have that level
of understanding at mid-level so that's
deep dive number one all right now it's
time for deep dive number two so we come
back over to our non-functional
requirements and we see that we want low
latency stack loading so just just as a
reminder so that we're clear on what the
problem is right now with our highle
design when we want to load a stack of
profiles that are recommended to us for
us to swipe on we call that the stack
we're going to query the profile service
and the profile service is going to
query the profile database for our
preferences and then query the database
again to find all profiles that match
our preferences right and so this is a
expensive query and it's going to take a
long time to run particularly because it
needs to filter by Loc
and so filtering by latitude and
longitude is a two-dimensional query
that normal indexes aren't going to be
able to serve well and it's going to
result in US scanning a lot of rows of
data doing comparison checks before
we're able to return the stack to users
and so consequentially to the users that
means that they're sitting there with a
little loading spinner when they're
trying to find love and they want that
stack ASAP but we got them just seeing a
loading spinner and that stinks so we're
going to try to fix that and so again
there's a handful of options options
here as well the first option that I
hear candidates propose is can we just
do geo sharding can we Shard this
database based on users locations and
then we'll have far less data to search
over and it'll make that expensive query
faster because there's less rows to look
at and this isn't a terrible intuition
and in combination with some other
Solutions might be sufficient but in
isolation it comes up short and the
reason being is what about users who
change locations as they do often you
know people go on vacation and then
they're swiping on their Tinder account
for that new location or what about
people who are on the boundaries then of
different partitions uh you know we cut
the boundary maybe at the New York state
line or something and people in New
Jersey uh are still five miles from me
uh if I'm on the edge there but I'm not
going to match with them at least it's
not going to be efficient to match with
them cuz I'm going to need to go look at
another Shard and what about highly
populated areas like New York City there
still tons of profiles in New York city
so it's still going to be a really slow
query so moral story is in isolation Geo
sharding or Geo partitionings not going
to be sufficient here what we really
need to do is fix the root problem and
the root problem actually but before I
go there let me propose another solution
a a solution is that we can do similar
to what we do in like Tinder or or
excuse me uh Instagram or Twitter feeds
and we can
precompute so what we can do is every
night we can do that expensive query and
we can cash it and then we can have a
stack there ready for users to go so let
me propose that here I'm going to have
like
a uh come on I'm going to have a stat
cache and so I'm going to have a stat
cache and then I'm maybe going to have
some Cron
job some oops some Chron job I'm
actually going to do it here cuz I'm
going to want to introduce something
later so I'm going to do it like this so
I'm going to have some Cron job that's
going to run every night it's going to
grab all of our users it's going to run
that expensive query and pre-compute
their cash and then it's going to go
like this when a user wants their stack
we're just going to pull right off the
cache and it's already been pre-computed
so this should be like an O of one
lookup time we only have the latency
associated with transferring the the
size of the stack Over The Wire
so this should be super super quick this
is the pre-computation approach this
Crown job like I said can run every
night can run every midday uh can run
you know every 6 hours whatever you want
it to be you have
pre-computation now what's the issue
with this approach the issue with this
approach is that what happens if
something has changed that something
that changed could have been somebody
who's in your stat cach deleted their
profile they don't want to be seen
anymore they're no longer on Tinder they
already found love it could be that
you've changed locations I'm no longer
in Seattle I'm in Los Angeles now and so
if that's the case I was in Seattle when
you calculated my stack cash now I'm in
Los Angeles and I check my stack and
it's all people in Seattle what the heck
is this that's not what I wanted right
or I changed my preferences I now want
you know people that are slightly older
for example and I still have all those
younger matches in my stack cache that
would not be good and so what we can do
is we can handle the invalidation there
and this is fairly straightforward and
that anytime one of those conditions is
met like a user changes location or
another user changes their preferences
or whatever then we have to invalidate
the appropriate stat caches and there's
going to be some like fairly complex is
application logic to realize which
thatat caches those are that we have to
invalidate and then for these users who
got invalidated we can either trigger a
workflow in order to refresh them or we
can just have them invalidated and then
they're going to have a slow stack
loading time so basically take a hit on
only a subset of users now even if we
didn't have to worry about invalidation
if a user swipes through their full
stack cach like let's say their stat
cash is 100 people and they swipe
through all of them now they're going to
have that long load time again in order
to get their new profile and that
expensive query and so it's still not
optimal for that reason if they're
invalidated again low low load time so
in any of the backup cases we still have
that inefficient query that we need to
run so let's focus now on solving maybe
that root that root cause of the problem
and what we can do is that we need to
realize that it's the the latitude and
longitude query that's so inefficient
and so we need a geospatial index and so
I've talked about this in a handful of
other videos if you want to watch The
Uber video you'll learn more about
geospatial indexes I won't go into
detail about them here but what they are
is a special type of in-memory index
that's going to allow you to search on
geospatial information latitude and
longitude much more
efficiently and and there's different
ways to do this option one is that like
this could be postgress and we could
have What's called the postgis extension
and so postgress has a bunch of
extensions that you can enable one of
them is called postgis and it supports
geospatial indexing and so we could just
enable it here and it's going to make
things really quick at least for the the
the lookup on location so that's option
one now there are some complaints that
this doesn't scale as well I think we're
well within the scalability limits of it
frankly if I was designing the system
I'd probably go that route but that's
one option another option which I'll put
down here is to introduce a search
optimized database or some external data
source that's optimized for these sorts
of expensive queries particularly
geospatial queries and so elastic search
has native support for geospatial
queries built in and so we could just do
this and so now all of our data is also
in elastics search and so we can go like
that all the data that's in our profile
database will show up in elastic search
at least the fields that we need to
search on we can use what's called
change data capture here uh what this
basically means and this arrow is an
abstraction I want to be clear about
that but any change that's made to your
database you have an event stream and it
basically puts on a stream like Kafka
for example if you're using postgress
Dynamo DB has Dynamo DB streams out of
the box but it's going to put those
events on a stream and then we can have
some consumer here that that for every
change in our postgress database or
whatever database we chose here we're
going to also make those updates in
elastic search and it's going to make
sure that the data between these two
things remains in sync and so this way
when we search um to get our new stack
it's a pretty quick query in elastic
search and so whether you do elastic
search or a different search optimized
database or you do postgis extension
both of them work both of them are great
Solutions I would lean towards postgis
extension only because it doesn't
introduce anent irely new data store
that the team has to learn and manage
and all of those things but either
option works and now the best solution
here is that we combine these two
approaches and so this Cron job now can
be running against elastic
search nightly or whatever to cach the
stack and then anytime that we
invalidate the stack or that a user gets
to the end of the stack we can just
query elastic search instead of doing
the expensive thing so this is our right
path we'll WR directly the profile
database CDC will propagate it to
elastic search but our git stack path
either hits the cache if it's there if
it's not there it just queries directly
from elastic search and given the
geospatial index on elastic search this
search is going to be a lot faster than
if we searched our database directly the
only last thing I'll say here is that
there are other optimizations like while
a user is swiping on their stack if
there's aund thing people in their stack
and they get to the 90th person then we
can proactive ly trigger this caching
flow right we can proactively load up
their next set from elastic search cash
it and that way to them the scrolling
feels infinite they never need to stop
so that's deep dive number two okay
we're almost there so kudos to anyone
that's made it this far you're doing
great I know I'm throwing a decent
amount of stuff at you um but really
appreciate you continuing to watch and
hopefully you're finding it useful the
last non-functional requirement here is
that we need to scale so I'm actually
going to kind of hand wve past this one
this one we've been talking about scale
for all of the deep Dives so all of our
horizontal or all of our services
they're going to scale horizontally
we're going to scale up our databases
and our caches as needed partitioning
elastic search true manage scales and
clusters cash can be partitioned so all
of the normal stuff here horizontally
scale Shard our databases load balancers
I think you guys know this stuff pretty
well by now there's lots of resources
online that can go into that I'm not
going to spend as much time there
instead to to wrap up this video I want
to talk about the constraint which we
haven't discussed yet which is the need
to avoid showing repeat profiles and so
how are we going to do this essentially
what needs to happen is that as our
profile service is generating or our
KRON job whichever one is generating our
stack we need to compare it to people
that they've already swiped on and so
one like the simplest thing we could
possibly do of course is just this so
load the stack or the cach stack from
elastic search or from the cach into the
profile service query for for everyone
they've ever swiped on and then compare
them in memory remove the ones they've
swiped on and return back to the client
for a mid-level interview this is great
it works no no worries it's not very
efficient so we're going to talk about
things that we could do better for those
staff and or senior and staff interviews
um but that is the viable simple option
that you should certainly always raise
in the
interview now the other thing that you
could do is that we already have this
cash here um so we could use this this
cache we'd probably need a different key
value pair because the this isn't going
to be efficient for us to be able to get
everyone that user one has swiped on
because the key is user one Co and user
2 right so that's not going to be an
efficient lookup because this is like a
hashmap style lookup so maybe within
this cache we introduce a set uh where
the key is the user and the value is
everyone that they've swiped on and so
the value is this set of other people
getting a little tight on Space here but
hopefully you guys are following that
and so instead of quering that database
which would have been slow we can query
the cache and do the same thing that was
mentioned there this can either be an
arrow oh I just had something pop up on
my screen I don't know if you guys could
see that or not uh but I'll keep going
here um so we could have this arrow to
the profile service also to the Cron job
when it does the pre-computation either
way but we hit this cache
now what's the potential limitation here
so if we have this cash um we have 10
million daily active users we said that
they swipe so I'm going to come down
here we have 10 million daily active
users we said that they swipe on an
average of 100 a day um we said it was
100 bytes so 100 bytes per entry there
or in this case um each entry is just an
additional 16 bytes but anyway I'm still
going to round up 100 bytes let's say
365 days that's 30 36 36.5
terabytes uh yearly right so every year
we're going to add 36 36.5 terabytes to
this cache
caches a huge cash is like 128 gigabyte
cach most AWS caches are smaller than
this right 32 64 gigabytes or something
respectively so this is going to take a
ton of instances of this cash and that's
going to be pretty expensive uh it'll be
fast because it'll be partitioned by the
user ID so that's not a problem but it's
just going to require a lot of hardware
and a lot of caches so can we do
something better well we can and there's
two things that we can do better either
we speed up the query to the database or
we reduce the amount of space needed in
the cache to speed up the query on the
database we could of course just
introduce a index and so uh whether
postgress Cassandra we can have an index
on user one and that'll make it at least
a lot quicker for us to do this query
and so that's good and is a totally
viable approach probably the simplest
option maybe even the best option to be
honest so that's one thing we can do the
other thing we can do is try to make
this use less space and so the option
there is that this 3 36.5 tabes is too
much so maybe we introduce a bloom
filter and so Bloom filters I'm not
going to go into too much detail but go
ahead and Google it on your own they're
space efficient data structures and
they're used to quickly check if an
element is possibly in a set so just
like how sets have dot contains that are
o one similar here in a bloom filter the
difference is that it's a probabilistic
data structure so we reduced the space
tremendously and in doing so uh we
introduced or we reduced the accuracy or
the Precision so with a bloom filter
it's just like a set but it takes far
less space but now when you check if
something is in a set there's a small
chance of a false positive but you
cannot have a false negative and so what
this means is that it might return to
you yes something is in the set and it
might be lying to you and so in our case
that might be fine because most of our
checks are going to be no that thing's
not in the set right uh and in the case
that it is yes it's in the set then we
can just confirm that it actually is by
quering our primary database right we
need to double check since there's that
option of false positives now in my
opinion this is like slightly over
engineering um I probably wouldn't go
for this approach I think the index
approach is fine especially since we're
mostly handling everything pre fetching
so even though this introduces some
additional time uh it's not horrible or
the end of the world and I'd rather
avoid the bloom filter which itself
still is going to be that large it's
still going to be really large here um
that's my personal opinion either option
works in the interview these trade-offs
are which great the last thing I'll say
is that staff candidates often times
will have the confidence to propose that
we just adjust the constraint and so the
constraint if you remember was avoid
showing repeat profiles but many staff
candidates I interview will say
something like this they'll say well
actually wouldn't it make sense if we
show repeat profiles again after say a
month and what this will afford US is
that we can clear out our cash after 30
days basically get over this 36.5
terabyte issue because now we're going
to have far less data in the cash we
only need to keep the last 30 days and
from a user experience it's probably
better anyway things might have changed
in 30 days your opinion of somebody
might has changed their profile might
have been updated or otherwise maybe
it's not 30 days maybe it's 60 90
whatever but this is a fantastic
proposal and it's the sort of thing that
you would do at work a PM comes down
with some constraint or some requirement
and you as the engineer can push back on
them and say actually I think this make
might make more sense both for our user
and and from a cost efficiency
perspective it's a great option so
that's another thing that could be
discussed here but ultimately with this
deep dive you're trading off the space
requirements and the efficiency in order
to do those check and that's what we
would want to hear
about all right there we go at this
point I think that we have designed a
pretty good implementation of Tinder um
and if you follow the leveling guidance
that I gave throughout you'll know what
exactly would have been required at each
level if you're somebody who just fast
forward to the of this video and you're
looking at it and you're thinking I'm a
mid-level candidate this is a lot watch
the full video this this this isn't
expect at all from a mid-level or even
senior candidate we we went into depth
um in all the places that we could or at
least a number of them um anyway Kudos
if you made it this far this ended up
being a long one let me know how you
feel about the length I think this is 15
minutes longer than the previous ones I
usually try to keep them an hour I know
that I went on some spur the- moment
tangents throughout in this one let me
know if those were good useful if they
were bad ultimately I just want these
videos to be as useful as possible to
you all so uh let me know in the
comments also leave any questions call
out anything I did wrong as always I'll
be trying to respond to comments as best
I can um lastly again check out our
guided practices uh where you can try
this question on your own or consider
booking a mock interview with us at
hello.com but until next time good luck
with your preparation and thanks
everyone for watching